# Choose Your Own Adventure (Vanilla HTML/JavaScript)

This is a simple choose your own adventure for teaching the basics of HTML and
JavaScript. The target audience is a group of 9 year olds that have no previous
experience but have thier chromebooks from school, want to learn coding and are
interested in making video games. This should be suitable for anyone starting
from scratch!

"Vanilla" is used to describe HTML and JavaScript usage because you don't need
anything other than a web browser. No special tools required!

# How it works!

You'll make a text-based choose your own adventure game. You can run it locally
without needing an internet connection or anything else. All you have to do is
learn a little bit about HTML and JavaScript then be creative in making up the
story and options.

If you want to share the game with others, GitHub will both host it for free
and let you edit the files (namely your `index.html`).

For example, visit https://jfalkner.github.io/choose-your-own-adventure/ to
start playing the example adventure in this repository.

If you want to see the source-code, you can see it here in GitHub or you can
also open up dev tools (in the Chrome or Firefox web browser) to see the code
that is currently being used.

### Enabling Github Pages

GitHub will take care of hosting your code online and having a domain name
(that http://... link) that you can use and share to access your game. All that
you have to do is make a repository then enable GitHub Pages for it. It is free.

[](images/enable_pages.png)


# Disclaimer! Is this a real website?

Note, this isn't a great example of modern frontend programming; however, it
provides near immediate results. This is also a good stepping stone to learning
some basics that will later let you more easily learn abstractions for more
easily making complex HTML/CSS (e.g. React, MUI and ilk) and for learning
better ways to manage complex JavaScript code (e.g. TypeScript, yarn/modules,
etc.)

All of the above said, this code still works as-is. If you just want to make a
choose your own adventure game then you really could just use what you learn
here. Building and selling software involves a lot of creativing, including
having the software be good enough to deliver the experience you intend.
